I love this library.
It is, it is, it is
absolutely beautiful library.
Are you a big reader?
You know, I mean, I, I,
I read a lot in general.
I don't know that I've
had that much time in
over the last year or so.
Dario Amodei is an unlikely AI celebrity.
He's known for warning
the world about the risks
of artificial intelligence.
Now, his company is an AI
frontrunner valued at nearly a
trillion dollars.
You're shipping so much, so
fast. How are you doing that?
We use Claude, you know,
across the product development cycle,
and it allows us to release very fast.
Founded by a team of OpenAI
defectors in 2021, Anthropic
started out as an underdog lab.
Today it's the breakout star,
wiping billions in value off
software stocks, going
head-to-head with the Pentagon,
and creating models allegedly
powerful enough to burst
through the walls of modern cybersecurity.
Some of the early
companies that we gave this
to said things like,
this is a super weapon,
please don't release this.
Guiding Anthropic through
this is a sibling duo, Dario,
the brother and visionary,
and Daniela, the sister
and operator who puts
Dario's swirling cosmic
thoughts into action.
Dario and I, we've always
been really close since we were
little, but I think we
always really wanted
to do something big together.
Okay, but when you argue who wins?
No one,
No one.
As the AI arms race
escalates, the Amodeis are eager
to establish themselves as the good guys.
But Anthropic's technology could
have profound implications
for how humanity works, learns
thinks, even fights wars.
Anthropic is run by
an ideological lunatic.
This is a debate about
what the proper use of AI
by the government is.
At some point, the models
become very dangerous, you know,
the bad guys will have it too.
And at that point, we have to make sure
that good guys have an even better model.
The name Anthropic actually
comes from the Greek word
for human, which speaks to their mission
to build responsible AI
for the long-term benefit of humanity.
Can you actually do that
when you're building the most
powerful technology in the world?
You are at the center of
the AI universe right now.
What does that feel like?
The experience I've
had for my whole career,
and certainly the whole
time at Anthropic, is
that there's this kind
of smooth exponential,
and the experience of the
smooth exponential is,
nothing's happening, nothing's
happening, nothing's happening.
Little things happen, and
then zoom, it goes crazy.
So, you know, I was watching
this graph for a while
and I said, oh yeah, we'll
probably become the, you know,
the, the AI company with, you
know, the, the most revenue
and the most valuation some
sometime around this time.
And, and indeed, indeed, it has happened.
We're just keeping in mind all
the things we usually keep in
mind, you know, how do
we train good models?
How do we put them in good products?
How do we make sure
that everything's safe?
What were you like as a kid
growing up in San Francisco?
I know your, your dad
was a leather craftsman.
Your mom worked in libraries.
How did that shape you?
You know, the whole, you
know, like first, you know,
internet revolution
was happening around me
and I had absolutely no interest in it.
I was just interested in like, doing math
and like scra, you know,
scrawling things.
I was interested in, like, you know,
understanding the universe.
I was interested in science fiction.
I think I just felt a lot of
curiosity about the world.
What was it like growing up with Dario?
He was so smart.
He was taking, you know,
calculus when he was, you know,
in I think like middle school.
He took math classes at UC Berkeley,
when he was in high school.
I was actually more into
to reading and arts.
So we were almost like complete
compliments in that way.
Dario studied neuroscience
before turning to AI at
Baidu and later Google.
While Daniela started out as
an early employee at Stripe.
They lived together in
San Francisco, along
with Daniela's husband, Holden Karnofsky.
Then in 2016,
Dario joined the newly formed
OpenAI followed by Daniela.
In 2018, the company began as a nonprofit
that promised a safe, more open
path to super intelligence.
I think we need to think right now about
how we want this deployed,
how everyone gets
to benefit from it, how we're
gonna govern it, how we're
gonna make it safe and
sort of good for humanity.
At OpenAI, Dario developed
the concept of scaling laws,
predicting that large language
models would improve simply
by adding more data
and computing power,
even if the underlying
algorithm stayed the same
At that point in time,
I know it sounds crazy now,
looking back, not a lot
of people believed,
Hey, scale up is the way
that these models are gonna
get smarter and better.
That was sort of an unusual
counter-cultural scientific
perspective that I think was
really held by our, you know,
founding research team.
That approach helped supercharge
OpenAI's models, paving
the way for chatGPT,
but the Amodeis reportedly clashed
with Altman over the company's
direction and values.
Altman has said, for all
the differences I have
with Anthropic, I mostly
trust them as a company.
Your decision to leave
OpenAI has become Silicon
Valley lore.
What did you disagree on?
Look, I'll, I'm gonna say it,
I'm gonna say it very simply.
There are many valid
disagreements to be had on safety.
We certainly had some of
those disagreements with them,
but you know, people that, that, that,
that alone is not sufficient to leave.
When you feel that you can't
trust someone, when you feel
that their values are not
what they say they are,
when you feel that they're not honest,
that makes it very hard to,
you know, to continue to work
with a company, to continue
to trust the company.
And look, at the end of the day, why argue
with someone when you don't have the same
vision and you don't trust them?
The way to resolve it is you
go off and do your thing.
They go off and do their thing.
So this is Precita Park.
When Dario and Daniela
decided to leave OpenAI
to start Anthropic, this is
where the early team would get together.
It was during the pandemic.
So the story goes,
and a bunch of early
employees would come here,
they'd pull up a chair on
the grass, they'd have lunch,
and they'd talk about
what they were building.
When we started this company,
there were seven co-founders
of which me and Daniela are two.
And now, you know, we we're, we're the,
we're the basically the
only company in the space
that has all of its
co-founders still here.
You don't get to, you know, be a company
of the size and scale that we are.
With that happening like
that almost never happens.
From the start, Anthropic pitched itself
as the ultimate safety
conscious AI company.
Dario has published long
essays with names like Machines
of Loving Grace and The Adolescence
of Technology, musing on the
miraculous potential of AI,
as well as the worst case scenarios.
Anthropic's chatbot, Claude has
been trained to follow a set
of principles called a
constitution, intended
to keep it on the straight and narrow.
Claude has a very distinct
style and feel a human name.
What are you trying to convey?
I think when people interact
with Claude versus, you know,
other systems, there is
more of a feeling of, I like
to describe it as professional warmth.
So the goal is not for it
to be your best friend,
but it's not for it to be sort
of cold, rote, calculating.
It should feel approachable,
but distant, right? Professional.
Anthropic has talked about
teaching Claude to be good.
What is a good model? What is a bad model?
You don't want a model that lies
accidentally or intentionally, right?
Lying, we call hallucinations.
It makes something up.
The models are just trained
to predict the next word.
So sometimes they don't know
and they just invent something.
Models sometimes, as we've
shown in our research,
can purposely try to deceive you.
We have to make sure that
doesn't happen in production
models that we expose to customers.
And then there's a lot of
work around harmlessness,
just making sure that the
model is not accidentally
producing, you know, information
that is wrong or harmful
or, or could cause someone
to do something bad
Whose values are being put into Claude,
like is there a universal good?
There's so many religions, so
many different beliefs, like
how do you even decide that?
So of course there's
no universal standard for
what makes something helpful or harmless,
but there are founding
documents in human history,
like the UN Declaration of
Human Rights that we can use
to train Claude's character.
And I think, you know, interestingly
on the religious front,
we've actually started to
have a lot of conversations
with religious leaders around
how should we think about,
you know, Claude, the entity,
and how can we bake in some
of the kind of core values
that are consistent across
religions types of belief
that really just transcend,
you know, a specific worldview,
but that are really things that
human beings been grappling
with for, for millennia.
Have you tried to give Claude
a trait that didn't take,
or was there any trait that
emerged that surprised you?
I think in the early days, it's funny
to look back on them now, the kind
of early Claudes, Claude two era,
sometimes Claude would be
almost a little bit nannyish.
Claude was like, I'm
really concerned about you,
and you're like, Claude, I was
asking for the weather, right?
It was like, it was
something really benign.
Thankfully we didn't, you
know, release most of, most
of the most egregious versions of those.
But I think it is, you know,
it is, when you think about it,
it's like tuning a dial.
And so our researchers
have this very fine needle
to thread in order to land
at the center of that.
Whatever Anthropic is doing with Claude,
it seems to be working.
Anthropic's revenue has
skyrocketed over the past year,
making the company profitable
for the first time.
That's largely thanks
to the company's focus on
more lucrative business tools.
Claude Code, a major leap
that automated large chunks
of software engineering
and Claude Cowork, which gave
that power to everyone else.
Now, early on, others focused
on fun splashy consumer apps.
You made a bet on coding and enterprise.
Why did you make that bet?
Was it a, was it a values
decision or a business decision?
Look, if you pick a business model
that fundamentally
conflicts with your values,
you're gonna have a hard time, right?
Either you betray your own
values or you become irrelevant.
And so when we thought about
it, we said, look, you know,
we've seen the world of social
media, the consumer world,
it, it really seems to, you
know, encourage engagement,
even addiction, you
know, the slop we've seen
with AI video models, it's
like, what's going on?
Is it wants to maximize the
number of minutes that you're,
you're paying attention to
because that's the advertising
revenue-driven incentive.
Whereas if we look at enterprise,
look, I mean, you know,
we want to make these
models useful to people.
We want to use AI to,
you know, cure diseases
that we couldn't cure before, right?
Well, that's working with
biotech, it's working with pharma,
it's working with
academic research groups.
All of those are enterprises, right?
We want to use AI to like, you know,
to make energy cheaper and more efficient.
That's, that's all enterprise.
And so I think it served us
well to have this business model
that largely aligns with our values.
Soon after Claude Cowork was released,
$285 billion in market
value vanished overnight.
Traders called it the SaaSpocalypse.
This kind of white
collar wipeout story in
the software sector. Terrifying.
Some of those are down
for nine days in a row,
so clearly the tension is building.
If AI continues improving
at this pace, how much
of traditional software
gets replaced and how fast.
I think with AI like the
pie is getting bigger, right?
So the existing incumbents may be smaller
and relative terms, some of
them may, may go down in value,
some of them may even may even go out
of business if they don't,
if they don't adapt in the right way.
But like, I would guess
that the software
industry gets larger, not
although there will be some big
losers, those who don't kind
of see what's coming, who
don't identify the moats they
have, they're gonna
have a really hard time.
It's sort of the quiet cafe.
Okay. Anthropic's recent growth
spurt might not have happened
without this man.
Boris Cherny, the
engineer behind Claude Code
and Claude Cowork. When
Anthropic hired him in 2024,
Cherny was living a very
different life in rural Japan.
There was a lot of farmer's
markets, like very slow.
We were making miso. That
was sort of the big hobby.
And I remember using the first AI chatbot
that I'd ever used, and it
just took my breath away
and I was just like, oh
my God, I have to, I have
to just be a part of this.
And I, I'm also just such
a big scifi reader
and so I just know how
bad this thing can go.
Like this technology
is incredibly powerful
and so we move, move back.
You created Claude Code,
you led the development
of Claude Cowork,
what problem were you trying to solve?
If you look at the coding
products, they were all pretty simple.
It was like, it was
sort of like, you know,
like complete the word,
complete the sentence.
That was the extent of AI in coding
and we just wanted to
make a way bigger bet.
And our bet was, we
think actually a coding
agent can do all of it.
A year and a half ago you
wrote the code by hand
and sometimes you press tab
and it would auto complete a line.
Now I talk to my Claude
and it writes the code
and then while it does that, I talk
to the next Claude and
it writes some code.
And at any point I have either, you know,
like a few Claudes running and up
to a few thousand Claudes
running, doing things.
How much code is Claude writing internally
for engineers here?
It's writing almost
all of it on my team.
So for me personally, it's
been writing a hundred percent
of my code for at least six months.
The work of engineering has
just completely changed.
I feel like I suddenly have superpowers.
I have like a jet pack and the engineering
has never been this fun.
Can we give Claude a spin?
Yeah, let's do this.
All right.
Alright, so let's,
let's make like a little recipe app.
So make a recipe app.
What do you want it to do?
I would love it to
suggest meals for the week.
So, you know, this is gonna
take maybe a few minutes
and let's, let's just
see if Claude builds this.
Oh, it gave me some
options. Hmm. Let's do
These look pretty tasty actually. Yeah,
I could do a Greek chicken power bowl.
When I click on a recipe, I want it
to show me how to do it. Thank you.
Aw, I'm sure Claude appreciates that.
I always try to say thank you.
Yeah, I always try to be nice too. I
don't know. A recipe app
might not be the most mind
blowing demo of Anthropic's technology,
but what Claude Code just did
in minutes, used to take hours
or days for some. That looks
like a big opportunity.
Are you like nervous about
next week or is it like..
What's next week,
Your developer conference?
Oh! Yes, yes. There's so many
things happening every week.
Year over year. API volume
is up nearly 17 x on the cloud.
In the last 12 months, we
shipped eight frontier models
to developers and users.
Welcome to the second annual
Code with Claude conference,
where Claude superfans come, hoping
to get a glimpse of the future.
We're having a lot of fun.
There's a ton of adrenaline.
This is the first year we've grown
faster than the exponential.
In the first quarter of this
year, we saw, if you were
to annualize it, 80 x growth per year.
Ooh.
I
use Claude every day
in the form of Claude Code
to do all sorts of stuff. Not
just write code.
I write way more code
than I did five years ago.
I've got the confidence of, I don't know,
a 22-year-old with VC money. I'm not 22.
My friend invited me and
it's been, it's amazing.
As someone that's not really technical,
which I think it's really
interesting just to see
what everyone's working
on, what's out there.
I think the, the concerning part or the,
and the exciting part is hey,
they can do things that are,
we couldn't dream of and
timelines we couldn't ever expect.
But the kind of alternate side of
that reality is you
really have to be prepared
because they will really be a thousand
times more productive.
All of this raises an obvious question.
Will engineers be the first casualties
of the AI they're building?
It's been revenge of the
nerds for a while? Is that over?
I think we all become nerds,
But what happens to the actual nerds?
I think the actual nerds will,
they're they have to figure it out.
Yeah. I I think for a lot of
them, the skill that they had
before is gonna help them in the future
because they sort of have
a pretty big head start.
They do a lot of things
that are not coding
and general also have to talk to users.
They have to plan, they have
to think about what's next.
So I, I think these are still parts
of engineering that
are gonna stick around.
Silicon Valley may have AI fever,
but elsewhere the mood is less upbeat.
70% of Americans think AI will kill jobs
and nearly a third worry,
theirs will be one of them.
Dario Amodei has been
outspoken about this issue
and some of his predictions
don't exactly sound reassuring.
I think we could have this
very unusual combination
of very fast GDP growth
and high unemployment,
or at least underemployment
or, you know, low wage job.
A lot of low wage jobs, high inequality.
You've been really
direct about job loss.
AI could eliminate half
of all entry level white collar jobs in
the next one to five years.
That was a year ago. AI
has moved incredibly fast.
Is it still 50% or is it higher?
I don't know exactly,
but I'm, I'm still,
I'm still pretty concerned.
I'm still the same order of concerns.
You know, we are seeing right now
that AI is making people more productive.
But that's the usual hump.
You automate 90% of the job,
great people are 10 times more
productive in the other 10%
'cause they're 10 times more leveraged.
But eventually it gets
close to a hundred percent.
Now the sequel to that
is, well then you have
to find something else for them to do.
Right now AI makes the software
engineers more productive,
even though AI writes all the
code or almost all the code.
But we're already starting
to see the beginning of like,
you know, there may be
some people that it's,
it's not making more productive,
that it's better for the AI
to just, to just do the thing.
How does that sit with you?
It's, it's very uncomfortable. Yeah.
I I think this is, this is
the reason why I chose to go
to Anthropic and I think
this is the reason that a lot
of people here chose to go
here is artificial intelligence
is this force that is
far bigger than we are.
But here we can hopefully make
it go a little bit better.
Do you feel like it's your
job to do something about that?
Or is that someone else's problem?
I think it's a thing
that we have to talk about.
We have to advocate for it.
Ultimately, it's up to
society to solve it.
This is bigger than one company.
There has been a lot of
pushback on, you know, your,
and I know you've said
you're trying to warn people,
but that, you know, you're,
you know, Jensen Huang said,
you're conflating tasks with jobs.
AI is creating jobs.
Anybody who is saying
that AI is wiping out jobs
is scaring people.
Other folks have said
this, you know, it's sort
of doom marketing that benefits anthropic.
So, so I wanna be really clear
and push back hard against this.
In every interview I talk about the,
the possible ways to
address these risks from tax
and macroeconomic policy to
what the new jobs are in The
Adolescence of Technology.
I have like five pages where
I lay out the difference
between tasks and jobs.
Why this time is different
than other times,
but social media, which I detest,
which I detest as a category,
people have these three
second clips from, you know,
from a year ago.
I've, I've written much more
carefully about these things
where, where I talk about the risks.
So these are this, this, the idea
that this is cheap marketing
is itself cheap marketing.
I think it's, it's part of
the disease of Silicon Valley.
It's been caught up in
this social media world of,
of, of three seconds.
And so my message is just
definitely not doom is coming.
My message is like, this
is something, you know,
that we should see coming,
that we're worried about
and that we need to actually
respond to positively
Beyond the software industry,
the potential impact of AI on
jobs seems harder to predict.
Anthropic has published a
paper estimating which fields
could make the most use
of AI in the near future.
If its predictions are
right, management, finance,
and legal jobs could
soon look very different.
Which jobs go away, who gets replaced
and what new jobs are created.
So no one knows for sure
because you know, the
economy's unpredictable, right?
The thing that that we have going
for us here is the pie
is gonna expand a lot.
And so because the pie
is gonna expand a lot,
there are probably going to
be places where people can go.
It's just a matter of
finding them fast enough.
So play this out for me a little bit.
You know, you wake up
in five years, you know,
what does this country look like?
What are those people doing?
Yeah, so 'cause if there's
that much unemployment, is
that not how revolutions start?
Yeah, no, this is the
outcome we wanna prevent.
This is absolutely the
outcome we want to prevent.
I think there's a few places,
none of them are guaranteed.
We're not sure, but
there's the physical world,
we need a lot of more
people to make, build,
manufacture things in the physical world.
Anything that's human centered, I think
that's gonna be a big deal, right?
People, or at least some
people wanna talk to humans.
So these kind of human
relationship driven jobs, like,
I think those are gonna be important
and I think there'll be some
effort by the humans to kind
of direct AIs right at, at
some level it has to be in line
with someone's values and
someone's intentions and,
and so I, I think there's
gonna be some role there,
although I don't know how thin
versus how thick it will be.
I think I feel a little bit more hopeful
that humans will continue
to find ways to leverage AI
to be productive, to do
the parts of the work
that are meaningful to us
that only humans can do.
I think the human
to human interaction
will never fully go away.
The example I often reach for is, is
what will happen in medicine today.
We hire doctors who are
expert diagnosticians.
I think AI is gonna soon be
pretty good at telling you
what the suite of options of things
that are wrong with you
and what test to run.
And you won't need a doctor to do that.
But an AI can't physically examine you
and say, Hey, does it hurt
when I press, you know, here.
They can't have a bedside
manner with you that says like,
tell me how you're feeling about this.
How are you, how are you coping with going
through this process?
And I think we're going to
pivot something like medicine
to be much more focused
on the interpersonal
because the diagnostic tools are going
to become much better.
But the interpersonal human
part, that's, that's not gonna
change.
Explain this to me. Daniela
runs day-to-day operations.
All the leadership team
reports to you. Yes.
No one reports to you. That
sounds like a pretty sweet job.
It's incredibly freeing.
It lets me do all the things
that I do much more easily
than I would otherwise
Because it's and she does all the work.
Is that what you're saying?
It's, it's, it's a, I'm just,
I if if you, if you had to
go through the things I had
to go through during
Department of War or no,
The Amodeis hope AI can have a
utopian influence on society,
but there's no denying the
technology's destructive
and dystopian potential.
Anthropic is at the center
of a technological arms race
with powerful governments
vying for control.
Dario has charged head on into this arena.
He's not afraid to blast his competitors.
And then I think there are
some players who, you know,
who, who are yoloing who, who pull,
pull the risk dial too far.
And I'm very concerned. Who is yoloing?
So I, that's a question
I'm not gonna answer
Or critique the US government
and Anthropic's own partners
for selling AI chips to China.
It's a bit like, you know,
I I I don't know like selling,
selling, you know, nuclear
weapons to, to North Korea.
I've been very outspoken about the need
for export controls on chips to China.
I say this because I think
it would be really bad
for America, for, you know, the state
of democracy in the world
for, you know, China
to be ahead in AI capabilities.
And you know, it's, it's like some
of the chipmakers obviously
don't agree with that view,
but it hasn't stopped me from saying it.
Even after we've signed more partnerships,
I'm sure they wish we
didn't say these things,
but these things are
what are what I believe.
And so, you know, look,
we're all adults here.
We can work together on one thing while
disagreeing about another thing.
Amodei's statements about
geopolitics date back
to his days at Caltech. As a
sophomore physics student,
he developed a reputation
as an anti-war advocate
who believed scientists
shouldn't sit in ivory towers.
It's a worldview that would
later define Anthropic's position
on the future of war.
You've had a longstanding anti-war stance
and yet you were one of
the first AI companies
to sign a contract with
the Department of Defense
to operate on classified networks.
These are the, are the networks
that the US uses to
fight wars. Explain that.
Look, I mean, the world changes.
Like, you know, my view of
this technology, you know,
when I see Russia invading
Ukraine, when I see the risk
of China invading Taiwan,
you know, it worries me
that we have a kind of
resurgent authoritarian block
that they're very aggressive
and that we need to defend ourselves.
You know, I may not agree
with every policy of I
of either administration,
but you know, that's why we've generally
been supportive of this.
You've been working
with Palantir since 2024.
That's right.
You know, their technology is used
by ICE, police departments, in Gaza.
Is Claude being used for
surveillance in other ways?
We, we don't work with
ICE either through Palantir
or anyone else.
We don't work with CBP. I
don't believe we work in Gaza.
We're very careful about, you
know, scoping our engagements
to things that we believe in.
In 2025, Anthropic along with OpenAI xAI
and Google won a $200 million
contract with the Pentagon.
Anthropic framed it as an opportunity
to become a leading AI
vendor for the government.
Claude was reportedly used
by the US military in the operation
to seize Venezuelan
president Nicolas Maduro.
Weeks later, everything
started to unravel.
We bring you breaking news
from Anthropic, the Department
of Defense demand that
Anthropic allow full use
of its AI technology without guardrails.
Anthropic drew red lines
refusing to let Claude be used
for mass surveillance
and autonomous weapons putting
the company on a collision
course with the Pentagon.
The tech giant facing a deadline
today to accept conditions
or be blacklisted.
Does a commercial entity
have the right to determine
how their products are
used by the military?
Lawsuits were filed
and Anthropic was banned from
the Pentagon, underscored
by strong words from President Trump
and defense secretary Pete Hegseth
Anthropic is run by an
ideological lunatic who
shouldn't have a, so that's,
but that's not my question.
My question is AI decision
making about what we do.
Do you mind being called
an ideological lunatic
or a bunch of left wing nut jobs?
You know, I've been called worse things
than that all the time.
What does winning this
fight actually look like?
I won't even call it a fight.
This is more a debate about
what the proper use of AI
by the government is.
And AI is an emerging new technology.
We don't understand the ways in which it's
reliable or unreliable.
We don't understand the ways
in which it promotes our values
or undermines our values.
And so one of the things that
I thought was important was
to establish a precedent
on some of the, some
of the use cases we think are good,
which frankly is most of them.
And, and some of the use cases
that we're concerned about.
A US official has said,
with the help of LLMs,
the US military has gone from being able
to hit a thousand targets a
day to 5,000 targets a day.
That means Claude can help
kill more people more quickly.
Are you comfortable with that?
Basically, you're, you're
asking like, you know,
do you believe in this country, right?
Do you want this country
to be a more powerful actor
rather than a less powerful
actor on the world stage?
I do. I'm a patriot. It's not up to me.
If we provide a technology,
it's not up to us to say,
you can do this military operation
and you can't do that military operation.
Now, I might privately believe
that this military operation makes sense
and that military operation is a bad idea,
but we're not gonna deny the technology.
You, you basically have
to, you know, you have
to leave policy in the hands
of the military decision makers.
Bloomberg has reported
that Claude is being used
by the US military and the war in Iran
to do AI assisted targeting
via a platform made
by Palantir Maven Smart
system. In February,
US missile reportedly hit a
girl school in Iran killing more
than 150 people, most of them children.
Did Claude play a role in that strike?
We don't know exactly how, you know,
these models were used, you
know, obviously like, you know,
these things that,
that, you know, mistakes
that happen in warfare are
really, really terrible.
Like this is a really
terrible thing to happen.
We were willing to risk
the future of our company
to like limit how, you
know, these models are used
and you know, what, what you're
talking about is a use case
that doesn't even violate our red lines.
We're worried that there will
be a hundred times as much,
you know, with, with use cases that, that,
that do violate our red lines.
Now I, you know, I I I,
you know, again, again,
I would say I think overall
the use of these, the, the use
of these models is appropriate.
I think it's good on net, you know,
but military decision makers
make terrible mistakes even
when, even, even at the best of times,
and I, I don't know if
we're in the best of times.
What we've seen here is Claude assists,
but a human makes the final call.
So a human made that
final call, not Claude.
Imagine if you had a world
in which, not Claude,
because we haven't allowed it,
but someone else's AI model,
the AI model just makes the decision
and the human never sees it.
That's what we were standing up for.
That's what we were fighting against.
This school had a website.
You could have found
it in a Google Search,
like shouldn't Claude have spotted that?
And it doesn't speak to a
scarier issue about using
technology as a shortcut in war.
The principle that was obeyed
here is a human makes the
human makes the final decision.
I don't know what role
Claude or any other AI had,
but like, if, if this
isn't an illustration why
that principle is so important,
I don't know what is,
Is AI warfare more likely
to stop World War III, a war
between the US and China?
Or is it more likely to make it happen?
I would say on balance it
is more likely to stop it.
But if we have no limits on
how it's used, then I think,
you know, it could be
more likely to cause it.
You've seen Dr. StrangeLove, right?
The premise of it was like, you know,
you have a doomsday device
that automatically fires
nuclear weapons when it thinks
nuclear weapons are being fired at it.
What could go wrong? Right?
I think the way conflicts
happen is that, you know, the,
the two sides jump at each other.
They misunderstand each other.
And when we don't have proper
oversight of this technology,
I think those kinds of accidents
are more likely to happen.
Now, I think if AI is used in
an appropriate way, in, in,
in, not even warfare,
but think of just, just
intelligence collection, you know,
let, let's say we're able to,
you know, predict an invasion
of Taiwan or a new movement in Ukraine.
Like, you know, our adversaries
will think twice about,
you know, about conducting
some kind of invasion
or military operation if we know
everything that they're doing.
AI's role on the battlefield
raises difficult questions,
even for a company willing to
debate the ethical dilemmas
of its own technology.
It's a conversation Amodei seems
eager to have in public.
How do you handle the pressure?
I try very hard to communicate
and always be straightforward and honest.
I get up in front of the
company every two weeks
and just talk for an hour
about just what's on my mind,
what's going on in the industry,
what's going on in the outside world.
It's totally uncensored.
And not only does it build
trust, it's very freeing for me
where I feel that I have 3,000 people
who are on the same page as me.
That is an incredible amplifier
and is one of the most useful things in
handing, handling the pressure.
Then when we have to confront
an external challenge,
stand up to, you know, some
very difficult situations
that we've seen in the
last few months, that is
what allows us to have a
consistent and coherent position.
And, and I think, I think
it's an incredible advantage
because I never feel like I'm alone.
Lurking in the background
at Anthropic's headquarters was
the surprise development of
a new AI model called Mythos.
A model so powerful, it spooked everyone.
Anthropic is making headlines
almost on a weekly basis.
Yes,
Most notably now around mythos.
The company believes
it's this enormous threat.
Imagine a world where
everyone had a nuclear
bazooka basically
Mythos identified thousands
of cybersecurity vulnerabilities,
exposing potential flaws in
every major operating system.
Anthropic signaled that if
fully released mythos could hack
banks, pry open state secrets
and cripple critical infrastructure.
I think the thing that
surprised me most about it was the
models had been climbing in their ability
to find vulnerabilities.
It was a particularly large jump.
Some of the early
companies that we gave this
to said things like, this is a
super weapon, you should have
to own a gun license to use it.
Please don't release this. In
an initiative called Project Glasswing,
Anthropic gave select
organizations access to Mythos.
Even federal agencies
like the National Security
Administration clamored
to use it despite Anthropic's
blacklisting by the Pentagon.
I think the future is this kind of cat
and mouse game where we need to make sure
that the good guys have the
tools that they need to defend,
and then at some point the, you know,
the bad guys will have it too.
And, and at that point we have
to make sure the good guys
have an even better model
so they can be ready for this.
Is it possible to stay ahead
of the bad guys really though?
That's what we hope
the criticism is.
You're effectively deciding who
gets access and who doesn't.
Why should anyone be
comfortable with that kind
of concentration of power?
It wasn't like, oh, it's so powerful
and let's decide who gets the power.
It was a very specific
concern around cybersecurity
and so the way that we
decided who to give the model
to was grounded in that specific fear.
There's obviously nuance to decide, like
where do you draw that circle?
I think that's really complicated.
I think we've tried to be
as publicly open as possible
to say we're trying our best
to make this decision well,
but like we might not do it perfectly.
What about the folks who say
this was just good marketing.
You know, we, we have
suffered enormously commercially
from not releasing this model.
This model has incredibly
accelerated research within
Anthropic and production and next models.
It would do the same in
the outside world if,
if we were to release it.
This has hurt us enormously commercially.
Have you had to make trade-offs already
that you're not entirely comfortable with?
Throughout the entire history
of Anthropic has been trade-offs, right?
In some ideal world, you would prefer to,
before you release the
first chat bot, you know,
you could spend years
studying, you know, every,
every possible thing that
could go wrong with it.
Now, we did delay, we did
delay the initial release
of Claude, but you know,
we did it for a few months.
So everything is a trade off
now that we're in, you know,
what I would describe as a
commercially leading position,
we can afford to move
the dial even further
towards being careful, right?
That's what the Mythos
release was about, right?
It's very hard to do something like
that if you're not the leading player.
There's this argument, why wouldn't the
government take you over?
Why would they let a
private company control
technology? That's so powerful?
So I think, I actually
think that's a very,
that's a very serious question
and I share those concerns.
I don't think the government
should outright take us over.
Every previous powerful technology
we've seen in history was
either built by the government
or originated with the government.
So nuclear weapons, obviously,
you know, initially built
by the government, the
internet, GPS, cell phones,
AI is the first technology
that's been built in the private sector
and where government has not
really had a serious role
and is coming in late to the game.
I think that's actually a
dangerous and unstable situation.
It is not the situation I
would've chosen this technology.
I'm scared of companies having it,
but I'm also scared of
government having it.
And then, you know,
we need basic regulation
of the technology.
You know, more
and more as I've seen what we've
seen with Mythos, you know,
I think we need to start
doing pre-release testing,
required pre-release testing, testing
and auditing of the models.
And this was an approach
the White House rejected
initially on his first day
back in office, President Trump
with the help of former AI
and crypto czar, David Sachs
dismantled President Biden's AI
executive order seeking guardrails,
instead favoring a hands-off,
let Silicon Valley do its thing approach.
We believe that excessive regulation
of the AI sector could kill a
transformative industry just
as it's taking off.
But with Mythos and its
national security implications,
proving hard to ignore the
White House now seems to want
to gatekeep the world's most powerful ai
It's very funny to me how
there's a particular group
of people in the tech world in
Silicon Valley, they started
with a position of like, you
know, even having transparency
around this technology, even
export control, you know,
this is all, you know, just totally,
it'll apocalyptically
destroy our potential
to create the technology.
It'll kill innovation.
And then as soon as they
see the first real danger,
which I've been expecting all
along, there's all this talk
of like nationalization
and the government should just seize it.
Come on folks here, you're yo,
you're yo-yoing from like the
most extreme anti-regulatory.
If you look at us the wrong way,
you're destroying the
industry to, you know,
this completely communist,
the government should grab it all.
We, we need, we, we need a more,
we need a more sensible,
moderate approach.
That's the one we've
been favoring all along
because we've, we've understood the
power of this technology.
We're not panicking, we're not denying it.
We see the smooth exponential
and we're responding to it appropriately.
The reaction to AI
right now, it's intense.
Anthropic has built this
really loyal following.
There are some people who
just love what they stand for,
but there've also been protests
right outside their office.
There's a lot of anxiety,
a lot of confusion,
there's some real anger right
now about what's happening
and it actually feels
like it's escalating.
Artificial intelligence is
the next industrial revolution. Whoa.
If you look at the data,
people are more concerned than excited
about what's going on.
They think the risks outweigh the benefits
and the truth is, if
you talk to the people
who are building this,
even they will tell you
they don't fully know
how it's all going to play out.
How do you think about
the weight of this moment?
I worry that something will go wrong.
You know, are we doing
literally everything we can?
We're certainly trying our best,
we're certainly trying very hard.
What I want is to create a
situation where if this set
of people can't do it,
it couldn't be done.
You can't guarantee success,
but maybe you can guarantee that
It's getting personal.
Sam Altman's home has been attacked.
How is that affecting you?
It was really scary to read that.
I mean, it was, we were obviously
extremely relieved that he
and his family were okay in general.
I think this is a time,
you know, technologically,
politically where unfortunately
there's just a lot more
rhetoric and, and words
that I think can lead to,
to bad outcomes and bad things happening.
I hope that this is a topic
we can all just debate,
you know, as peacefully as possible.
It was scary to me too.
I mean, you know, this is
like a, a less savory aspect
of the exponential, right?
That as AI gets more
and more of, of a big
thing like, you know,
it becomes just such
a big deal to society.
There's more attention on it.
There's been massive
backlash against social media.
Countries are starting to ban
it. Could that happen to AI?
I think it's, it's absolutely possible.
If the social media companies
could go back in time
and see the world that they see today,
would they do anything differently?
I like to think the answer to that is yes.
I don't know if we sort of
project some of the challenges
that the social media companies have faced
around child welfare, mental
health, election integrity, all
of these topics we're really
lucky that we're we're second.
We view it as our job to try
and proactively think about all
of the things that could go wrong.
Because if we don't, who's going to,
You know, I don't know
that they actually set out
to do the right thing or make
the world a better place.
And so I don't think if
they were going back,
they would even knowing what they do,
and they certainly should
do things differently.
I don't know if they
actually will, but we can't.
This is why we're trying
to get this right the first
time instead of waiting
for things to go wrong, then scrambling
to justify why it's all okay.
The main way I could see a
AI being, you know, banned
or blocked is if something
really went wrong
and if something really went wrong,
then maybe it deserves to be,
You have technologists
saying it's gonna be amazing
and others saying it could be awful.
Where are you on that spectrum?
I hope for the best,
but plan for the worst.
For me, this is the most
important work I've ever done.
For some people it feels
like this is the last job
because this is sort of the,
it could mean the end of work
and I think for other
people it's, you know,
like maybe it's not the last job,
but it's existential to get this right.
And so there's just this,
this kind of burden.
If the impacts could be as significant
as we're talking about, as significant
as Anthropic has warned about,
what responsibility do
you think Anthropic has
to cushion the blow?
What do you owe the people
whose lives you've upended?
I think our view has always been,
we ultimately are responsible
as an industry, the industry
that's developing this technology
for thinking through what
are the risks, what are the
bad things that could happen?
And if some of those things come to pass,
what is our role in helping to fix them?
That is our job, right?
We should not just say,
well, we were just trying
to grow the product and
suddenly there's an entire
generation of young women
who have eating disorders
or who have mental health problems
because whoops, we were just
trying to grow the product.
That's not the stance
that I think any technology
company should take.
I don't think that's the stance
that we're trying to take
For a company whose
identity is so wrapped up in,
We want to do this right,
We exist as a AI safety company.
How can we just help
all of this go? Well,
It can be hard to understand
why Anthropic is pushing
so hard to advance AI while being
so upfront about the
dangers. In his essays,
Dario lays out what the end
game looks like if everything
goes right with ai, a
utopian future where machines
and humans work side by side AI,
an inevitable force steered
toward prosperity rather than
catastrophe to mitigate the
devastation of job loss.
He proposes solutions like
universal basic income
and progressive taxation of AI companies.
But as the Amodeis confront the
messy realities of power,
politics, and profit,
the real test is whether
that founding mission can survive the
scale of what they're building.
Google started with the
motto, don't be evil.
A founding promise the company
quietly retired as it grew.
You are building something
incredibly powerful
and stand to gain enormously from it.
Why should we trust you?
I think starting from a
position of distrust, you know,
if you don't know anything about,
if you don't know anything about
philanthropic, it's pretty rational.
I think Silicon Valley has
lost a lot of the world's trust
and kind of has to re-earn it,
and the message, you know,
we're trying to send is,
we're actually different and,
and that has to be earned in
things that we actually do.
I understand one of your
favorite books is The Making
of the Atomic Bomb.
That is correct.
Do you see parallels
between yourself and Oppenheimer?
The figure I most identified
with was Leo Szilard
who was the one who first had the idea
that there could be a chain reaction.
Look, my view is we're, we're
not gonna get through this
with like larger than life personalities
or like figures who try and be
at the center of everything.
In some ways, I actually see
Oppenheimer as a failure case, as
what should not happen.
There's a lot of powerful
actors who have interests here,
and the only way it's gonna end well
for everyone is if there is
some, there's basically checks
and balances everywhere.
You've said there's
roughly a 10 to 25% chance
of civilization collapse,
that is not insignificant.
Is there a scenario where it's something
that Anthropic built, that caused that?
I mean, I certainly hope not.
My view is that that
probability comes from the very
straightforward recipe of
the technology, the existence
of many countries in the world.
The existence of many
companies within an economy
and new ones created.
If the void is isn't filled,
like that's a dilemma
that we're in half of what we
do within the company is try
and, you know, reduce the
risk as much as we can,
but it's never gonna be zero.
Suppose there are a bunch of, you know,
airline companies out there
and you're like, well, I'm gonna make an
airline company that's safer.
It can both be the case that, you know,
your airline company is 10
times safer than all the other
airline companies.
But if someone comes
and asks you, like, can you guarantee
that your airplane will never crash?
I mean, how could you,
how could you possibly,
But if there was a 25%
chance of an airplane crashing,
you wouldn't get on that plane.
That's right. 25% is too high.
We're trying to make that
probability much, much lower.
That's, that is, that is the goal.
How do you find your
zen? How do you relax?
You know, it honestly, a lot
of it's just exposure to, to it.
You know, I sometimes
I'll just like, you know,
I'll just take a weekend
and I'll like play some video games.
Sometimes with Daniela
Me and my wife go to Italy.
Sometimes we have a horse
there, so I'll just,
I'll just sit there next.
I'll just, I'll just look at the horse
and I'll be like, you know,
Calypso, who's her horse like,
you know, she doesn't
know about any of this,
like she's just a happy horse.